hello and welcome to my first course
learn php the right way
learning the right way means learning
php from the ground up
from the beginner's level all the way to
advanced in a single course
i have seen many courses that teach
basic stuff really well
and they do an amazing job but not all
of them go into more detail or cover
some of the advanced topics that it will
definitely need
if you want to create and maintain web
applications or jump into frameworks
knowing these topics beyond the basics
will help you better understand how
certain
things work in the frameworks later and
it will help set the proper foundation
it will also help you write clean
efficient and secure code as well as
help you dive into existing code base
and understand how it works
this course is for both beginners and
experienced php developers
my goal is to have enough content within
this one course that even if you have
experience with php you could still
learn something new
we're going to start with the basic
material and quickly advance into the
more advanced topics as we go on so
let's get started
[Music]
so what is php php stands for hypertext
preprocessor which is an open source
scripting language that is mainly used
for web development scripting languages
are also programming languages the main
difference between the scripting and
programming languages lies within their
execution
while programming languages need to be
compiled into machine language the
script and languages need to be
interpreted for example
java c or c plus plus are programming
languages that need to be compiled in
order to run
where php and javascript need an
interpreter unlike javascript which runs
on the client within the browser php
requires a server to run this is a very
simple representation of how php runs
client or the browser makes requests to
the server which then interprets and
processes php it can also do other
things there like connect to the
database or third-party apis and so on
and finally it sends the response back
let's talk about why you should learn
php first of all it's easier and
beginner friendly which attracts a lot
of developers this is one of php's
strengths but it can also be considered
as one of its weaknesses
because of this simplicity you could
essentially write a pretty bad code and
it will still run and work just fine in
browser
and because of this sometimes php gets
the bad reputation but don't let that
discourage you from learning php because
we're here to learn php the right way
also php is very powerful not only you
could build
simple websites but it could also build
very complex web applications even at
enterprise level it also has amazing and
huge ecosystem
and some of the best frameworks you
could build e-commerce web applications
connect
countless other third-party services
build company websites build crm systems
blogs billing invoicing warehouse
management the possibilities are endless
though you will still hear php is dead
from time to time
if you go on social media you probably
will encounter a question is php dead
pretty often but is it actually dead
well first of all php powers over 75
percent of websites whose server side
language is known
so no php is not that and it is not
going to die
anytime soon because if it does somehow
75 percent of websites need to
switch from php to something else
secondly yes php code can be bad
but again you could write garbage code
in any programming language whether it's
java python or c plus plus it doesn't
have to be just php
also php has evolved a lot since php4
and php5
it was mostly procedural back then but
it has become more object oriented and
has introduced great support for strict
types
a lot of times they've skipped some of
the advanced topics like security for
example
and jump straight into building websites
because as i mentioned before php is
pretty simple
and beginner friendly this is why it's
important to learn php beyond the
beginner's level and learn those
necessary and advanced topics which will
be covered in this course so let's talk
more about this course
this course will be split into three
sections the first section will be basic
php which will be mostly procedural then
we're gonna have intermediate php where
we'll transition into object-oriented
programming and advanced php where we'll
learn
some advanced topics and techniques the
basic php section will cover things like
getting php up and running
syntax operators variables and data
types control structures functions
typecasting and error handling
working with php ionize and web server
working with arrays and dates
and more in my opinion you should know
how to work with your server's
configuration files as well as your php
configuration files before you even move
into databases or object-oriented
programming the intermediate php section
will be object oriented focused and will
cover things like classes and methods
object-oriented programming code style
and psr
namespaces and autoloading dependency
management
super global sessions and cookies
databases and more you might be asking
why i did not include
things like super globals or sessions
and cookies within the basic php the
simple answer to that
is because it's not basic yes i could
teach you the very basics of it but
there are more things that you should
know and how it ties in nicely with the
object oriented programming
advanced php section will cover topics
about testing and php unit
introduction to mvc and routing
dependency injection container
caching and security frameworks and php
8 best practices
hosting and deployments and more so as
you can see there is a lot of content
and i have not mentioned all the things
that are going to be in the course
these are just the main topics that will
be there and basically after going
through this course i'm hoping that he
will have enough knowledge to build
something amazing whether it's just with
vanilla php or with a framework
it does not matter the goal of this
course is for you to know
things in php beyond the beginner's
level and beyond the procedural php so
as far as the requirements goes
you just need to know basic html to get
started with this course
no javascript or css is necessary though
i might use some basic css to style
things here and there but it's not
necessary if you have any previous
programming experience or know
another language like javascript for
example then this course will be a bit
easier if you are new to programming and
php is the first language you're
starting with then it might be a bit
harder but don't worry about it section
1 of this course is for beginners and it
should prepare you for the other
sections this is it for this video and
the introduction of the course thank you
so much for watching i'm really excited
to be working on this course
if you have any feedback comments or
concerns please don't hesitate and post
it down below or send me a message on
twitter
if you're looking forward to this course
please give this video a thumbs up share
and subscribe
and i will see you on the next video